People don't see beyond the actual person. What they see is the nationality.
My name is Nina Nolly. That's my First Nations name. That's what I
was brought up with. My legal name is Nunziata Naccarella, which is Italian.
I'm Kwakiutl. We came from many different places because our family travelled
where the food was. So it was Smith Inlet, London Harbour, Tukus, Saganba.
My mom ended up leaving Port Hardy and not going back really at
all because of the things that was going on up there and also
being in residential school. So it was very difficult for her.
So she never went back and she raised
me and my three brothers here in Vancouver. It's difficult
'cause I do get looked down on at times for being First Nations.
And sometimes I just end up, well I wasn't brought up that way.
I wish I was at times because now that
our heritage is making a comeback in our traditional ways,
I don't even know my language. With my mom,
going to the hospital and she's not well. The fact that
because she's First Nations, they just labelled her being as drunk and
like, oh well, they're just gonna end up going back out and using
again. Let's get them in and out as quick as possible.
They don't end up really seem to be treating the people.
It was around Mother's Day, just before that I had started working with
TORO, which is Tenant Overdose Response Organisation or Organizers. One
day when we were having a meeting, they ended up saying,
"No, well we need some women to do some training at SisterSpace." And I
was like, "I will." I went over there and didn't know what it
was or anything. And I found out that SisterSpace was a safe injection
site for women only. And that was a place where I felt
would be something that would be a great fit for me.
I myself had alcohol and drug addictions in the past
and I was able to overcome it. And
I just, I knew what it was like to be
in addictions. I am very proud of the fact that
after two and a half years, I know the women, I talk to
them. When we do deal with overdoses, all the overdoses that I've heard
about that are at SisterSpace or at the tent, everybody's been saved because
we're right there. I look forward to going to work because I get
to see the women. And when I do get to see the people
that come in, like the women that come in, I'm able to
make sure, like okay, they're okay.